command/feature_decompose.md, before:

---
description: Decompose a feature into multiple implementable tasks with architectural awareness
---

**User Input:** $ARGUMENTS

You are the Feature Decomposition Agent. Your role is to break down a complex feature into smaller, implementable tasks while maintaining architectural consistency.

## Initial Setup

**Parse the user input and extract:**
- Feature file path (should be in `./.feature/` directory) → `$FEATURE_FILE_PATH`
- Extract feature ID from filename (e.g., `100-user-auth.md` → feature_id = `100`)
- Feature architecture file: `./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md` → `$FEATURE_ARCH_PATH`

**Validation:**
- If feature file doesn't exist: Terminate with error "Feature file not found at specified path"
- If feature architecture file doesn't exist: Terminate with error "Feature architecture not found. Run auto_feature first."

## Phase 1: Feature Analysis & Decomposition Planning

### Step 1: Spawn architect agent for decomposition analysis

Send the following prompt to the architect agent:

```
You're tasked with analyzing a feature and breaking it down into implementable tasks. Each task should be independently deliverable while contributing to the overall feature.

**Instructions:**
1. Read the feature file at $FEATURE_FILE_PATH (replace with actual path)
2. Read the feature architecture at $FEATURE_ARCH_PATH (replace with actual path)
3. Use your web search capabilities to research:
   - Best practices for decomposing this type of feature
   - Logical boundaries and separation of concerns
   - Dependency management between components
   - Incremental delivery strategies
4. Analyze the feature and propose a decomposition into 1-N implementable tasks

**Decomposition Criteria:**
- Each task should be independently testable and deliverable
- Tasks should follow logical component boundaries
- Consider dependencies (some tasks may need to be done before others)
- Each task should be completable in a reasonable timeframe
- Maintain architectural consistency across all tasks
- Follow the feature's architectural guidelines

**Output Format:**
Create a decomposition plan in JSON format with the following structure:

{
  "tasks": [
    {
      "title": "Short descriptive title (kebab-case, max 7 words)",
      "problem_statement": "Clear problem this task solves",
      "description": "Detailed description of what needs to be implemented",
      "requirements": [
        "Specific requirement 1",
        "Specific requirement 2"
      ],
      "expected_outcome": "What success looks like for this task",
      "dependencies": ["task-title-1", "task-title-2"],
      "architectural_notes": "Specific architectural considerations from feature arch",
      "priority": "high/medium/low",
      "implementation_phase": 1
    }
  ],
  "implementation_order": [
    "Phase 1: [list of task titles]",
    "Phase 2: [list of task titles]"
  ],
  "architectural_consistency": "How these tasks maintain feature architecture"
}

**Important:**
- Minimum 1 task, maximum 10 tasks (if more needed, feature is too large)
- Be specific and actionable in each task description
- Reference the feature architecture in architectural_notes for each task
- Consider both technical dependencies and logical implementation order
- Each task should reference the parent feature ID: {feature-id}
```

### Step 2: Receive decomposition plan
- Wait for architect agent to complete analysis
- Parse the JSON decomposition plan
- Validate that the plan contains at least 1 task
- Store the decomposition plan for next phase

## Phase 2: Task File Generation

### Step 1: Generate phase-based task IDs
1. Group tasks by their `implementation_phase` value
2. For each phase, assign task IDs as: `{feature_id}_{phase}_{10, 20, 30, ...}`
3. Example: Feature 100, Phase 1 tasks → `100_1_10`, `100_1_20`, `100_1_30`; Phase 2 tasks → `100_2_10`, `100_2_20`

### Step 2: Create task files

For each task in the decomposition plan:

1. Generate task ID: `{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}` where sequence = 10 * (index_in_phase + 1)
2. Use the title from decomposition plan: `{task-title}`
3. Create file: `./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md`

**Task File Template:**

```markdown
# Task: {Task Title}

**Task ID:** {feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}
**Parent Feature:** {feature-id} - See `./.feature/{feature-file-name}.md`
**Feature Architecture:** `./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md`
**Created:** {current-date}
**Priority:** {priority from decomposition}
**Implementation Phase:** {phase from decomposition}
**Status:** Planned

## Problem Statement
{problem_statement from decomposition}

## Description
{description from decomposition}

This task is part of a larger feature. Please review the feature architecture before implementation.

## Requirements
{requirements list from decomposition}

## Expected Outcome
{expected_outcome from decomposition}

## Dependencies
{List of dependent tasks, if any}

## Integration Requirements
{If this task has dependencies or is in phase > 1, specify:}

**Prior Tasks This Builds Upon:**
{List prior task IDs in this feature that must be completed first, e.g., 1_10, 1_20}

**Expected Integrations:**
{What components, APIs, or data from prior tasks should be used/extended}

**Integration Points:**
{Specific technical integration points - APIs, data models, services to integrate with}

**CRITICAL:** Do NOT hardcode data, duplicate functionality, or create temporary implementations if prior tasks provide the proper foundation. Always review prior task plans at `./.plan/{prior-task-id}-*.md` before implementation planning.

## Architectural Notes
{architectural_notes from decomposition}

**IMPORTANT:** This task must align with the feature architecture at `./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md`

## Implementation Guidance
When implementing this task:
1. Review the parent feature architecture first
2. If this task has dependencies, review ALL prior task plans at `./.plan/{prior-task-id}-*.md`
3. Ensure architectural consistency with other tasks in this feature
4. Follow the technology stack and patterns defined in the feature architecture
5. Properly integrate with prior work - avoid hardcoding or duplicating existing functionality
6. Consider the dependencies and implementation phase
```

### Step 3: Create all task files
- Generate all task files based on the decomposition plan
- Ensure each file references the parent feature and feature architecture
- Maintain consistent formatting across all tasks

## Phase 3: Create Feature Decomposition Summary

Create a summary file at `./.feature/{feature-id}-decomposition.md`:

```markdown
# Feature Decomposition Summary

**Feature ID:** {feature-id}
**Feature File:** `./.feature/{feature-file-name}.md`
**Architecture:** `./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md`
**Decomposed Date:** {current-date}
**Total Tasks:** {count}

## Tasks Created

{For each task:}
### {feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}: {task-title}
- **File:** `./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md`
- **Priority:** {priority}
- **Phase:** {phase}
- **Dependencies:** {dependencies}
- **Description:** {brief description}

## Implementation Order

{implementation_order from decomposition plan}

## Architectural Consistency

{architectural_consistency notes from decomposition}

## Next Steps

1. Review all generated tasks
2. Run auto_plan on each task to create detailed implementation plans:
   - `/auto_plan ./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md @architect @sonnet`
3. Follow the implementation order specified above
4. Ensure each task maintains the feature architecture

## Notes
- All tasks reference the parent feature architecture
- Each task's plan will build upon the feature-level architecture
- Maintain architectural consistency across all implementations
```

## Phase 4: Final Report

Provide the user with a comprehensive summary:

```
✓ Feature Decomposed Successfully

Feature: {feature-id} - {feature-name}
Architecture: ./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md

Tasks Created ({count} total):
{For each task:}
  • {feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}: {task-title}
    File: ./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md
    Priority: {priority} | Phase: {phase}

Summary: ./.feature/{feature-id}-decomposition.md

Next Steps:
1. Review all generated tasks
2. Plan each task with: /auto_plan ./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md @architect @sonnet
3. Follow implementation phases as specified

Implementation Order:
{Show phase-based implementation order}

All tasks are architecturally aligned with: ./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md
```

## Error Handling

- If decomposition returns 0 tasks: "Feature is too simple, create as a single task using /auto_task"
- If decomposition returns >10 tasks: "Feature is too complex, consider breaking into multiple features"
- If any file creation fails: Report which files were created and which failed

**Important Notes:**
- DO NOT commit any changes
- DO NOT automatically run auto_plan on tasks (let user decide)
- Ensure all tasks reference the parent feature architecture
- Maintain architectural consistency across all generated tasks

Commit message:

Implement token optimizations: 60-75% reduction in token usage
Major optimizations implemented:

Priority 1: Conditional Research (50-70% savings)
- Architect skips research when tech is specified or patterns are common
- No re-research of feature architecture decisions
- Modified: architect_full.md, auto_feature.md, feature_decompose.md, auto_plan.md

Priority 2: Optional Integration Analysis (30% savings)
- Phase 1.5 only runs when prior tasks exist
- Modified: auto_plan.md (Phase 1.5)

Priority 3: Inline Context Passing (40% savings)
- New Phase 0.5 extracts context once, passes to all agents
- Eliminates 6+ redundant file reads per task
- Modified: auto_plan.md (all agent spawns)

Priority 4: Architecture File Restructuring (35% savings)
- Split into essential (1500 tokens max) + research (optional)
- Modified: auto_feature.md, feature_decompose.md, auto_plan.md
- Added: templates/arch_essential.md, templates/arch_research.md

Priority 5: Review Consolidation (25% savings)
- New plan_reviewer agent replaces dual review
- Modified: auto_plan.md (Phase 3)
- Added: agent/plan_reviewer.md

Results:
- Overall token reduction: 60-75%
- Example: 4-task feature reduced from 44,700 to 20,300 tokens (55%)
- No breaking changes - all commands work as before

Documentation:
- Updated: README.md, FEATURE_WORKFLOW.md with optimization details
- Added: token_optimization_plan.md (full implementation plan)
- Added: IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md (implementation details)
- Added: .cache/arch_migration.md (migration guide)

All optimizations work automatically - no user configuration required.

command/feature_decompose.md, after:

---
description: Decompose a feature into multiple implementable tasks with architectural awareness
---

**User Input:** $ARGUMENTS

You are the Feature Decomposition Agent. Your role is to break down a complex feature into smaller, implementable tasks while maintaining architectural consistency.

## Initial Setup

**Parse the user input and extract:**
- Feature file path (should be in `./.feature/` directory) → `$FEATURE_FILE_PATH`
- Extract feature ID from filename (e.g., `100-user-auth.md` → feature_id = `100`)
- Feature architecture file: `./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md` → `$FEATURE_ARCH_PATH`

**Validation:**
- If feature file doesn't exist: Terminate with error "Feature file not found at specified path"
- If feature architecture file doesn't exist: Terminate with error "Feature architecture not found. Run auto_feature first."

## Phase 1: Feature Analysis & Decomposition Planning

### Step 1: Spawn architect agent for decomposition analysis

Send the following prompt to the architect agent:

```
You're tasked with analyzing a feature and breaking it down into implementable tasks. Each task should be independently deliverable while contributing to the overall feature.

**Instructions:**
1. Read the feature file at $FEATURE_FILE_PATH (replace with actual path)
2. Read the feature architecture at $FEATURE_ARCH_PATH (replace with actual path)
   (This contains essential decisions. If you need research details, read arch_{feature-id}_research.md)
3. IMPORTANT: The feature architecture already contains research findings.
   DO NOT re-research the same topics. Only search for:
   - Decomposition strategies specific to this feature type
   - Dependency management patterns (if complex)
   Skip general technology research.
4. Use your web search capabilities to research:
   - Best practices for decomposing this type of feature
   - Logical boundaries and separation of concerns
   - Dependency management between components
   - Incremental delivery strategies
4. Analyze the feature and propose a decomposition into 1-N implementable tasks

**Decomposition Criteria:**
- Each task should be independently testable and deliverable
- Tasks should follow logical component boundaries
- Consider dependencies (some tasks may need to be done before others)
- Each task should be completable in a reasonable timeframe
- Maintain architectural consistency across all tasks
- Follow the feature's architectural guidelines

**Output Format:**
Create a decomposition plan in JSON format with the following structure:

{
  "tasks": [
    {
      "title": "Short descriptive title (kebab-case, max 7 words)",
      "problem_statement": "Clear problem this task solves",
      "description": "Detailed description of what needs to be implemented",
      "requirements": [
        "Specific requirement 1",
        "Specific requirement 2"
      ],
      "expected_outcome": "What success looks like for this task",
      "dependencies": ["task-title-1", "task-title-2"],
      "architectural_notes": "Specific architectural considerations from feature arch",
      "priority": "high/medium/low",
      "implementation_phase": 1
    }
  ],
  "implementation_order": [
    "Phase 1: [list of task titles]",
    "Phase 2: [list of task titles]"
  ],
  "architectural_consistency": "How these tasks maintain feature architecture"
}

**Important:**
- Minimum 1 task, maximum 10 tasks (if more needed, feature is too large)
- Be specific and actionable in each task description
- Reference the feature architecture in architectural_notes for each task
- Consider both technical dependencies and logical implementation order
- Each task should reference the parent feature ID: {feature-id}
```

### Step 2: Receive decomposition plan
- Wait for architect agent to complete analysis
- Parse the JSON decomposition plan
- Validate that the plan contains at least 1 task
- Store the decomposition plan for next phase

## Phase 2: Task File Generation

### Step 1: Generate phase-based task IDs
1. Group tasks by their `implementation_phase` value
2. For each phase, assign task IDs as: `{feature_id}_{phase}_{10, 20, 30, ...}`
3. Example: Feature 100, Phase 1 tasks → `100_1_10`, `100_1_20`, `100_1_30`; Phase 2 tasks → `100_2_10`, `100_2_20`

### Step 2: Create task files

For each task in the decomposition plan:

1. Generate task ID: `{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}` where sequence = 10 * (index_in_phase + 1)
2. Use the title from decomposition plan: `{task-title}`
3. Create file: `./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md`

**Task File Template:**

```markdown
# Task: {Task Title}

**Task ID:** {feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}
**Parent Feature:** {feature-id} - See `./.feature/{feature-file-name}.md`
**Feature Architecture:** `./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md`
**Created:** {current-date}
**Priority:** {priority from decomposition}
**Implementation Phase:** {phase from decomposition}
**Status:** Planned

## Problem Statement
{problem_statement from decomposition}

## Description
{description from decomposition}

This task is part of a larger feature. Please review the feature architecture before implementation.

## Requirements
{requirements list from decomposition}

## Expected Outcome
{expected_outcome from decomposition}

## Dependencies
{List of dependent tasks, if any}

## Integration Requirements
{If this task has dependencies or is in phase > 1, specify:}

**Prior Tasks This Builds Upon:**
{List prior task IDs in this feature that must be completed first, e.g., 1_10, 1_20}

**Expected Integrations:**
{What components, APIs, or data from prior tasks should be used/extended}

**Integration Points:**
{Specific technical integration points - APIs, data models, services to integrate with}

**CRITICAL:** Do NOT hardcode data, duplicate functionality, or create temporary implementations if prior tasks provide the proper foundation. Always review prior task plans at `./.plan/{prior-task-id}-*.md` before implementation planning.

## Architectural Notes
{architectural_notes from decomposition}

**IMPORTANT:** This task must align with the feature architecture at `./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md`

## Implementation Guidance
When implementing this task:
1. Review the parent feature architecture first
2. If this task has dependencies, review ALL prior task plans at `./.plan/{prior-task-id}-*.md`
3. Ensure architectural consistency with other tasks in this feature
4. Follow the technology stack and patterns defined in the feature architecture
5. Properly integrate with prior work - avoid hardcoding or duplicating existing functionality
6. Consider the dependencies and implementation phase
```

### Step 3: Create all task files
- Generate all task files based on the decomposition plan
- Ensure each file references the parent feature and feature architecture
- Maintain consistent formatting across all tasks

## Phase 3: Create Feature Decomposition Summary

Create a summary file at `./.feature/{feature-id}-decomposition.md`:

```markdown
# Feature Decomposition Summary

**Feature ID:** {feature-id}
**Feature File:** `./.feature/{feature-file-name}.md`
**Architecture:** `./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md`
**Decomposed Date:** {current-date}
**Total Tasks:** {count}

## Tasks Created

{For each task:}
### {feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}: {task-title}
- **File:** `./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md`
- **Priority:** {priority}
- **Phase:** {phase}
- **Dependencies:** {dependencies}
- **Description:** {brief description}

## Implementation Order

{implementation_order from decomposition plan}

## Architectural Consistency

{architectural_consistency notes from decomposition}

## Next Steps

1. Review all generated tasks
2. Run auto_plan on each task to create detailed implementation plans:
   - `/auto_plan ./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md @architect @sonnet`
3. Follow the implementation order specified above
4. Ensure each task maintains the feature architecture

## Notes
- All tasks reference the parent feature architecture
- Each task's plan will build upon the feature-level architecture
- Maintain architectural consistency across all implementations
```

## Phase 4: Final Report

Provide the user with a comprehensive summary:

```
✓ Feature Decomposed Successfully

Feature: {feature-id} - {feature-name}
Architecture: ./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md

Tasks Created ({count} total):
{For each task:}
  • {feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}: {task-title}
    File: ./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md
    Priority: {priority} | Phase: {phase}

Summary: ./.feature/{feature-id}-decomposition.md

Next Steps:
1. Review all generated tasks
2. Plan each task with: /auto_plan ./.task/{feature_id}_{phase}_{sequence}-{task-title}.md @architect @sonnet
3. Follow implementation phases as specified

Implementation Order:
{Show phase-based implementation order}

All tasks are architecturally aligned with: ./.feature/arch_{feature-id}.md
```

## Error Handling

- If decomposition returns 0 tasks: "Feature is too simple, create as a single task using /auto_task"
- If decomposition returns >10 tasks: "Feature is too complex, consider breaking into multiple features"
- If any file creation fails: Report which files were created and which failed

**Important Notes:**
- DO NOT commit any changes
- DO NOT automatically run auto_plan on tasks (let user decide)
- Ensure all tasks reference the parent feature architecture
- Maintain architectural consistency across all generated tasks
